external_packages/README.md, before:

## 3DGlauber support

3DGlauber is a 3D initial state model. 3DGlauber generates the initial state for
the MUSIC and can be integrated into the XETSCAPE framework. To download the lastest
version of 3DGlauber, one can run the shell script under the external_packages folder,

```bash
    ./get_3dglauber.sh
```

To compile the 3DGlauber code together with the XETSCAPE framework, please turn
on the 3DGlauber support option,

```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DUSE_3DGlauber=ON ..
    make
```

## MUSIC support

MUSIC is a (3+1)D viscous hydrodynamical code developed at McGill university.
(Official website: http://www.physics.mcgill.ca/MUSIC)
MUSIC can be integrated into the JETSCAPE framework. To download the lastest
version of MUSIC, one can run the shell script under the external_packages folder,

```bash
    ./get_music.sh
```

This shell script will clone the latest version of MUSIC to external_packages folder.
It also setup the enviroment variables for MUSIC to run. Specifically, MUSIC
needs the folder path for the EOS tables. Please make sure the enviroment
variable HYDROPROGRAMPATH to be set to the path for MUSIC code package.

When compiling MUSIC with JETSCAPE, please turn on the MUSIC support option
when generating the cmake configuration file,

```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DUSE_MUSIC=ON ..
    make
```

To run JETSCAPE with MUSIC, one needs to use MPI commands,

```bash
    mpirun -np 1 ./MUSICTest
```

## Running JETSCAPE with CLVisc
In order to run clvisc in jetscape, one has to download it in external\_packages/, using 

```
sh get_clvisc.sh
```

Then compile and run the framework with a XML configuration file which turns clvisc on.
```
cd build/
cmake .. -DUSE_CLVISC=on
make
./runJetscape ../config/jetscape_clvisc.xml
```
If the cmake fails because OpenCL is not installed, please check it.
OpenCL is delivered in MacOS by default. 
If you use linux machine with Nvidia GPUs, you will need to install CUDA,
which will provide OpenCL support.
If you use linux machine with AMD GPUs, Intel GPUs or any CPUs,
you will need to install AMD APP SDK.

## SMASH hadronic afterburner

SMASH [https://smash-transport.github.io] is a hadronic transport approach
developed at Frankfurt University and GSI by the group of
Prof. H. Elfner (nee Petersen).  In JetScape SMASH can
serve as an afterburner, useful to compute soft observables.

### Installing SMASH

SMASH is published on github at https://github.com/smash-transport/smash.
See SMASH Readme for libraries required by SMASH and how to install them.

```
  export EIGEN3_ROOT=<eigen install directory>/include/eigen3/
  export GSL_ROOT_DIR=$(gsl-config --prefix)
  export BOOST_ROOT=<boost install directory>
  export PYTHIA8DIR=${PYTHIAINSTALLDIR}/pythia8235
  export PYTHIA8_ROOT_DIR=${PYTHIAINSTALLDIR}/pythia8235

  export JETSCAPE_DIR=${HOME}/JETSCAPE-COMP
  export SMASH_DIR=${JETSCAPE_DIR}/external_packages/smash/smash_code

  cd ${JETSCAPE_DIR}/external_packages
  ./get_smash.sh
```

### Compiling JetScape with SMASH

The usage of SMASH in JetScape as an afterburner requires hydro,
sampler and SMASH itself. Therefore, to use it in JetScape,

```bash
    mkdir ${JETSCAPE_DIR}/build
    cd ${JETSCAPE_DIR}/build
    cmake -DUSE_MUSIC=ON -DUSE_ISS=ON -DUSE_FREESTREAM=ON -DUSE_SMASH=ON ..
```

To run JetScape test with SMASH:

```bash
    cd build
    ./SMASHTest
```

Currently the iSS sampler performs resonance decays after sampling.
For reasonable physics with SMASH these decays should be switched off.

Commit message:

Add the iSS support in the external_packages README file

external_packages/README.md, after:

## 3DGlauber support

3DGlauber is a 3D initial state model. 3DGlauber generates the initial state for
the MUSIC and can be integrated into the XETSCAPE framework. To download the lastest
version of 3DGlauber, one can run the shell script under the external_packages folder,

```bash
    ./get_3dglauber.sh
```

To compile the 3DGlauber code together with the XETSCAPE framework, please turn
on the 3DGlauber support option,

```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DUSE_3DGlauber=ON ..
    make
```

## MUSIC support

MUSIC is a (3+1)D viscous hydrodynamical code developed at McGill university.
(Official website: http://www.physics.mcgill.ca/MUSIC)
MUSIC can be integrated into the JETSCAPE framework. To download the lastest
version of MUSIC, one can run the shell script under the external_packages folder,

```bash
    ./get_music.sh
```

This shell script will clone the latest version of MUSIC to external_packages folder.
It also setup the enviroment variables for MUSIC to run. Specifically, MUSIC
needs the folder path for the EOS tables. Please make sure the enviroment
variable HYDROPROGRAMPATH to be set to the path for MUSIC code package.

When compiling MUSIC with JETSCAPE, please turn on the MUSIC support option
when generating the cmake configuration file,

```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DUSE_MUSIC=ON ..
    make
```

To run JETSCAPE with MUSIC, one needs to use MPI commands,

```bash
    mpirun -np 1 ./MUSICTest
```

## iSS support

iSS is a Monte Carlo sampler for particle distribution from Cooper-Frye freeze-out procedure.
iSS hadronizes the hydrodynamic hyper-surface from MUSIC, and can be integrated into the XETSCAPE framework.
To download the lastest version of iSS, one can run the shell script under the external_packages folder,

```bash
    ./get_iSS.sh
```

To compile the iSS code together with the XETSCAPE framework, please turn
on the iSS support option,

```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DUSE_ISS=ON ..
    make
```

## Running JETSCAPE with CLVisc
In order to run clvisc in jetscape, one has to download it in external\_packages/, using 

```
sh get_clvisc.sh
```

Then compile and run the framework with a XML configuration file which turns clvisc on.
```
cd build/
cmake .. -DUSE_CLVISC=on
make
./runJetscape ../config/jetscape_clvisc.xml
```
If the cmake fails because OpenCL is not installed, please check it.
OpenCL is delivered in MacOS by default. 
If you use linux machine with Nvidia GPUs, you will need to install CUDA,
which will provide OpenCL support.
If you use linux machine with AMD GPUs, Intel GPUs or any CPUs,
you will need to install AMD APP SDK.

## SMASH hadronic afterburner

SMASH [https://smash-transport.github.io] is a hadronic transport approach
developed at Frankfurt University and GSI by the group of
Prof. H. Elfner (nee Petersen).  In JetScape SMASH can
serve as an afterburner, useful to compute soft observables.

### Installing SMASH

SMASH is published on github at https://github.com/smash-transport/smash.
See SMASH Readme for libraries required by SMASH and how to install them.

```
  export EIGEN3_ROOT=<eigen install directory>/include/eigen3/
  export GSL_ROOT_DIR=$(gsl-config --prefix)
  export BOOST_ROOT=<boost install directory>
  export PYTHIA8DIR=${PYTHIAINSTALLDIR}/pythia8235
  export PYTHIA8_ROOT_DIR=${PYTHIAINSTALLDIR}/pythia8235

  export JETSCAPE_DIR=${HOME}/JETSCAPE-COMP
  export SMASH_DIR=${JETSCAPE_DIR}/external_packages/smash/smash_code

  cd ${JETSCAPE_DIR}/external_packages
  ./get_smash.sh
```

### Compiling JetScape with SMASH

The usage of SMASH in JetScape as an afterburner requires hydro,
sampler and SMASH itself. Therefore, to use it in JetScape,

```bash
    mkdir ${JETSCAPE_DIR}/build
    cd ${JETSCAPE_DIR}/build
    cmake -DUSE_MUSIC=ON -DUSE_ISS=ON -DUSE_FREESTREAM=ON -DUSE_SMASH=ON ..
```

To run JetScape test with SMASH:

```bash
    cd build
    ./SMASHTest
```

Currently the iSS sampler performs resonance decays after sampling.
For reasonable physics with SMASH these decays should be switched off.
